The digestive tract is something that starts from the mouth
all the way to the anorectal membrane.
We've already seen the esophagus, we've seen the lungs,
we've now seen the stomach and we've already placed it with its wrapping,
which was very important, which is this lesser sac,
this retrogastric pouch, this peritoneum.
So the peritoneum, we saw that ultimately,
we must consider it as something intelligent.
We will work from the base of the skull,
we will work at the junction.
esophago-cardio-tuberosity of the stomach.
We will also work on this support area at the hyoid level,
both with the fulcrum of a part of the esophagus
and the fulcrum always in relation to its embryological fulcrum.
And remind me, what is the embryological fulcrum at the level
of this entire retrogastric pouch that ends at the greater omentum?
It's this hiatus of Winslow which itself always resets.
And so we must ultimately look for the support points
so that the system itself
organizes itself in its function.
We saw that there was a hormonal function at the stomach level,
we saw that there was a mechanical function,
that there was a fluidic function,
and that the stomach is related to speech.
It's the entrance.
My stomach starts in my mouth,
it starts with my tongue, it starts with my saliva,
it starts with my teeth, it starts with my swallowing.
Hence the importance of not swallowing our words.
Anger, either it expresses itself, or it is repressed,
or it gives you the unlimited.
If it expresses itself, it's not so good. If you repress it, it's very bad. But if you
use
its clarity of emergence, it illuminates you. The moment anger rises,
you see. After,
you see nothing. In the first moment, there is a vision. Buddhists, for example,
masters use this clarity to return to the faculty of the mind's eye. But that,
that's a lot of meditation work. It's using emergence and that means that every
emotion
ultimately has its wisdom, that means you can transform all suffering into awakening, that's
where
you can bring out one of the most beautiful lotuses from the mud, we see around the iris a
very small
stomach ring, I'm going to look at her lip, you see a tiny bit here, I'm looking at a tiny bit
at
her tongue, slightly pale, a little trembling, sometimes we see here, you see at the level of the lip
a
small discoloration up there inside and a little bit down here outside at the level of
the
stomach.
We're going to start from the base of the skull, we're going to take the dural sheath again and
at the same time I'm going to have a gentle support to go and find my rings and simply allow
freedom.
We're going to go more on a purely tissue plane first and sometimes we can go down to a cellular plane and so we're going to go on a molecular, enzymatic, protein plane if it's necessary and sometimes we can go down even further to a purely energetic, fluidic plane, it will depend on where we need to work. There, I have the work that is done gently in relation to this sphenobasilar symphysis. Here, there is a slight swelling in the neck lodge, not really a thyroid problem, but a tiny bit on its right lateral lobe, which may be old stresses that were found in its adrenals. We release through the kidneys and we release through the diaphragm, that is to say, we restore the flexibility of my diaphragmatic pillars. Same thing, I can take this fulcrum, I take this hyoid, precisely. I can work it again in relation to its embryonic fulcrum. There is already something on the hypoglossal. Here, I know there are already unsaid things. I can already say it. Because there, it will help her to formulate. So, she has already blocked here, since the hypoglossal must be it is supported by the hyoid. Already, I feel a clear fixation here. This junction of the stomach, I'm going to take the sphenoid, you see. It's almost an energy level. It's as if I'm putting a needle to make the current go down, here. So, it's in slight tension, here. So, I'm simply going to open. And you see, it's very light, I have a precise finger, quite induced. We can release this microtension here. Or I can go and look for information that blocks on a carotid. Here the tissue shows it to me. Or on a payment level. I'm looking here. For example, the carotid level is not bad in her. That's where I'm going. The carotid glomus, so it will re-inform the cardiac area, it's very soft here, it's almost a level now. The stomach has a little more in its globality in relation to this lesser sac of the omenta. And I come to take, turn a little like that, the retrogastric pouch here in hand, I really have the posterior part of my stomach. So I try to have an open hand, a relaxed hand, welcomed. As here my hand was placed on the stomach area between my hands, there I wait at the posterior part, I know I have muscles etc. the ribs etc. then I know that posteriorly I find myself with the kidneys with the adrenals and I advance the layer of the pancreas and then I settle in this lesser sac of the omenta so in this retrogastric pouch so between my hands I have this sliding surface to give it back this side where it can express itself. To enter into a depth, I observe the breathing of my patient. I know when he inhales, when he exhales. The entrance, to enter, is where there is emptiness. I will work with emptiness. I connect to the totality of emptiness by its own moment when it gives back the breath of its life. For a moment, she gives back the breath. I connect with the breath. And at the end, there is a small door. There is a small door into which I enter, consciously. And then there, we can discuss, we can talk. The tissue, it can come and give you information, if necessary. But there, it has just had a change, because it has just released. It's not a gas... Well, you understand what I'm saying. It's an odor that has just been released from her tissue. Because I know that, so that means that there is a transmutation slowly taking place here. I place myself at the sacrum, I can work a little, see what is happening in the small pelvis. It will help her because I knew a little on her midline that she was on a fulcrum slightly to the side here, you see. There, you see, it's just a support point. You see, I'm not doing anything, but at the same time I recognize exactly what's happening. I'm accompanying you. You're going to feel a strong heat coming to your kidney. It's all your ancestors coming, all aligned, realigning for you. We're going to go that far, because there I've touched a point of softness now. It's as if she can get on her horse of emptiness. Now I'm well seated. I'm going to register these corrections in her brain. I'm going to go
I'm going to go into the limbic system so that she remembers this moment as an eternity.
as here my hand was placed on the stomach area between my hands, there I wait at the
posterior
part, I know I have muscles etc. the ribs etc. then
I know that posteriorly
I find myself with the kidneys with the adrenals and I advance the layer of the pancreas
and then I settle in this lesser sac of the omenta so in this retrogastric pouch
so between my hands I have this sliding surface to give it back
this side
where it can express itself. To enter into a depth,
I observe the breathing
of my patient. I know when he inhales, when he exhales. The
entrance, to
enter, is where there is emptiness. I will work with emptiness.
I connect
to the totality of emptiness by its own moment when it gives back the breath of its
life.
For a moment, she gives back the breath.
I connect with the breath.
And at the end, there is a small door.
There is a small door into which I enter, consciously.
And then there, we can discuss, we can talk.
The tissue, it can come and give you information, if necessary.
But there, it has just had a change, because it has just released.
It's not a gas...
Well, you understand what I'm saying.
It's an odor that has just been released from her tissue.
Because I know that, so that means that there is a transmutation slowly taking place here.
I place myself at the sacrum, I can work a little, see what is happening in the small
pelvis.
It will help her because I knew a little on her midline that she was on a
fulcrum slightly to the side here, you see.
There, you see, it's just a support point.
You see, I'm not doing anything, but at the same time I recognize exactly what's happening.
I'm accompanying you. You're going to feel a strong heat coming to your kidney.
It's all your ancestors coming, all aligned, realigning for
you.
We're going to go that far, because there I've touched a point of softness now.
It's as if she can get on her horse of emptiness.
Now I'm well seated.
I'm going to register these corrections in her brain.
I'm going to go
until
I'm going to go into the limbic system
so that
she remembers this moment
as an eternity
there